doc(dns): more precise stdlib resolver naming (#257)
ooni/spec: data-formats/df-002-dnst.md

on 2022-08-27 during the ooniprobe 3.16.0-alpha release cycle and it
has not otherwise been used by stable ooniprobe versions. Calling such an
engine `go` was confusing because it may seem to imply that we were
actually using a DNS resolver written in Go, which we don't know. In
fact, it may either be `netgo` or it may be `cgo` and hence `getaddrinfo`,
depending on golang's policies for the `GOOS` we're using.

Save for `ooniprobe 3.16.0-alpha` builds, which have behaved inconsistently
while we were figuring out this issue of naming, when the engine is `system` we
artificially split a lookup into an `A` query and reply and an `AAAA` query
and reply (which is what we've been doing since Measurement Kit).

The `getaddrinfo` / `golang_net_resolver` approach is more correct in terms of
representing which low-level operations occurred. `Getaddrinfo` is a single operation
and it's not faithful to reality to fake out two lookups because this is what _may_
have happended at the network level. In going forward, new experiments and
refactored experiments will stop using the `system` engine name. We could have
continued to use it with the new, no-split approach, but we chose to change

> the name because we change our way of representing getaddrinfo-like resolutions.

Author: ```suggestion
the name because we changed our way of representing getaddrinfo-like resolutions.
```

measured in the moment in which `failure` is determined (`t - t0` gives you
the amount of time spent performing the given lookup);

- `transaction_id` (`int`; optional; since 2020-01-11): if present and nonzero,

> this is the ID of the transaction that caused this query. By grouping by treansaction

Author: ```suggestion
this is the ID of the transaction that caused this query. By grouping by transaction
```

ID, you could observe chains of events that are logically related. For example, a
DoH lookup includes ancillary DNS lookups, TCP connects, TLS handshakes, etc. If
zero, this field just indicates we don't know the transaction ID. Before 2022-08-26,
this field was not used in production and had a different definition where the

> transaction was necessarily an HTTP transaction, which was acually too strict.

Author: ```suggestion
transaction was necessarily an HTTP transaction, which was too strict.
```

### DNS resolver engines

The following table documents the available DNS resolver engines.

| Engine name         | Description |
| :------------------ | ----------- |
| unknown             | We don't know what resolver we're using (added on 2022-08-27) |
| system              | We are using getaddrinfo (legacy since 2022-08-27) |
| getaddrinfo         | We are using getaddrinfo |
| golang_net_resolver | We are using golang's `net.Resolver` |
| go                  | Alias for `golang_net_resolver` (deprecated since 2022-08-27) |
| udp                 | Custom DNS-over-UDP resolver |
| tcp                 | Custom DNS-over-TCP resolver |
| dot                 | Custom DNS-over-TLS resolver |
| doh                 | Custom DNS-over-HTTPS resolver |

Since 2022-05-29 (i.e., for `ooniprobe>=3.16.0`), we explicitly use
`getaddrinfo` whenever possible and fall back to using `net.Resolver` only when
`CGO_ENABLED=0`, which happens when cross compiling or when who's
building OONI has passed `CGO_ENABLED=0` explicitly from the command

> line See [ooni/probe-cli#765](https://github.com/ooni/probe-cli/pull/765)

Author: ```suggestion
line. See [ooni/probe-cli#765](https://github.com/ooni/probe-cli/pull/765)
```

> line. See [ooni/probe-cli#765](https://github.com/ooni/probe-cli/pull/765)
> and [ooni/probe-cli#766](https://github.com/ooni/probe-cli/pull/766) for
> more details about how we choose the resolver name.

Author: ```suggestion
line. See [ooni/probe-cli#765](https://github.com/ooni/probe-cli/pull/765),
[ooni/probe-cli#766](https://github.com/ooni/probe-cli/pull/766), and
[ooni/probe-cli#885](https://github.com/ooni/probe-cli/pull/885) for
more details about how we choose the resolver name.
```

| getaddrinfo         | We are using getaddrinfo |
| golang_net_resolver | We are using golang's `net.Resolver` |
| go                  | Alias for `golang_net_resolver` (deprecated since 2022-08-27) |
| udp                 | Custom DNS-over-UDP resolver |
| tcp                 | Custom DNS-over-TCP resolver |
| dot                 | Custom DNS-over-TLS resolver |
| doh                 | Custom DNS-over-HTTPS resolver |

Since 2022-05-29 (i.e., for `ooniprobe>=3.16.0`), we explicitly use
`getaddrinfo` whenever possible and fall back to using `net.Resolver` only when
`CGO_ENABLED=0`, which happens when cross compiling or when who's
building OONI has passed `CGO_ENABLED=0` explicitly from the command
line. See [ooni/probe-cli#765](https://github.com/ooni/probe-cli/pull/765),
[ooni/probe-cli#766](https://github.com/ooni/probe-cli/pull/766), and
[ooni/probe-cli#885](https://github.com/ooni/probe-cli/pull/885) for
more details about how we choose the resolver name.

When the engine is `getaddrinfo` or `golang_net_resolver` or `go`, we
represent a lookup host operation as a single `ANY` query and include into
the results any returned `A`, `AAAA`, and `CNAME` information by faking

> a reply containing such records as answers.

Author: ```suggestion
a response containing such records as answers.
```

The `go` engine is a misnomer that we corrected to `golang_net_resolver`
on 2022-08-27 during the ooniprobe 3.16.0-alpha release cycle and it
has not otherwise been used by stable ooniprobe versions. Calling such an
engine `go` was confusing because it may seem to imply that we were

> actually using a DNS resolver written in Go, which we're not sure about. In

Author: ```suggestion
actually using a DNS resolver written in Go, which we don't know. In
```

> fact, it may either be `netgo` or it may be `getaddrinfo` depending on

Author: ```suggestion
fact, it may either be `netgo` or it may be `cgo` and hence `getaddrinfo`, depending on
```

> fact, it may either be `netgo` or it may be `cgo` and hence `getaddrinfo`, depending on
> golang's policies for the `GOOS` we're using.

Author: ```suggestion
fact, it may either be `netgo` or it may be `cgo` and hence `getaddrinfo`,
depending on golang's policies for the `GOOS` we're using.
```

> golang's policies for the platform we're using.

Author: ```suggestion
golang's policies for the `GOOS` we're using.
```
